It doesn't disappear completely, but it
is greatly diminished. It guarantees
you're going to be able to train all the
way to momentary muscular failure
multiple times in one set with a fresh
muscle.
This is like the recipe for absolute
perfect stimulus and muscle growth.
Hi, my name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering which
gives me a unique perspective on all
sorts of things. Today,
I got a question for you. Are you too
smart to grow muscle by lifting weights?
Now, hear me out. People are risk
averse. There's to some degree of you
have somebody stand on this ledge right
here, they're going to be afraid they
fall even if the glass is right there.
They might get a little bit dizzy
because of the distance, you know, if
you fell through the glass. So, we're
averse to risk. This is This is how we
stay alive. And it turns out that most
people when they lift, they are so
averse to risk that and Menno Henselmans
summarized this for us and you can look
it up. I'll put bigger bigger on the
screen. Average lifter trains with six
reps in reserve. This is a new study
that came out. Now, that means if you
did 10 reps, you could actually do 16.
That really means that when you're
lifting, you are doing jack You're
not going to grow from six reps in
reserve. And I I mean, maybe possibly if
you had some sort of, you know, hours
and hours of volume, you finally get to
a level of exhaustion where the body is
like, all right, maybe. As I have laid
out in some of my previous videos,
there's only one way to grow muscle and
it is to get stronger.
And if you're training with six reps in
reserve with regular weights,
it's not going to happen for you. And
this is why I wrote the book
weightlifting is a waste of time.
Because when you lift weights, no matter
what, you pick up something that's heavy
to you, which
like I said, is the only way to get
stronger, well, now you're rolling the
dice with injury.
So, with variable resistance, even when
I'm pushing out and I've got like that
550 out here in my chest press, as soon
as I lower it, let's say I do
10 reps with 550, then I can't get there
anymore. Well, now I'm doing reps
with 400.
And then I'm doing reps with 300. So, I
go to fatigue in diminishing range.
But,
my central nervous system, my my
subconscious
risk aversion process, cuz remember,
this is subconscious. You can't do
really much about it. I I say
intelligent, but I mean like an inherent
intelligence that we have in our own
reflexes and our in our own biology. You
can't do anything about neural
inhibition.
So, when your own neurology is shutting
muscles off because it's afraid that
you're going to create an injury,
you really can't do anything about it.
But, with variable resistance, your body
automatically knows that as you lower
the resistance,
the weight gets lower.
So, the risk, it doesn't disappear
completely, but it is greatly
diminished. It guarantees you're going
to be able to train all the way to
momentary muscular failure multiple
times in one set with a fresh muscle.
This is like the recipe for absolute
perfect stimulus and muscle growth.
Check it out. Ask questions if you
uh if you have any in the comments.
Can't wait to answer them. If this video
helps you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights,
we've got the answer for you.